Let's go ahead and do some further data manipulation.
We are going to load the data again from a ACSU file, but this time we are going to try and save it
into a much better format, which is a Pajero.
So we'll get to that in a minute.
But let's take a look at the data that we are starting with.
So this is the auto data set.
So it has information about different cars, their mileage and all of that stuff.
Right.
So we can download this data from this.
You are using the built in download function that Julia comes with and we can save it in data.
I've already done this or I'm not going to run this cell, but we can then go ahead and read all the
lines of this file and see what it looks like just to see if it's there.
OK, so this is what it looks like.
So this is a building function, so works out of the box.
Now we're going to try and use the CSV and data frames package, just as we did in the previous video
and see if this works.
So we do the exact same thing.
We give it the headers which are not present in the CEV.
So we are going to hardcore them over here and we are going to convert the missing values to end any.
OK, and then we pipe this to the data frame, just as we did previously.
So when we do that, you'll see that we'll get an error.
And the reason for that is that there are some TAB characters over here and then some non standard formatting
going on because of which we are getting some errors.
So here's a warning.
Borst expected nine columns because I give it nine columns over here, but didn't reach the end of line
around the data.
Right.
So what it's saying is it got to the end, but nine columns were not filled.
And the reason for that is this deal here.
If you can see I'm going to zoom in.
So this guy over here, this is causing the problem.
And this is a very common problem when you're working with CSP files, there might be some hidden characters
and stuff going on that is causing problems for your data set.
So what we're going to do is we're going to see how we can manage this in our code.
So let's go ahead and first read this whole thing into a string.
So we are going to read this file as a string into our underscore start variable.
OK, then we're going to go ahead and replace all the characters with the space and that's going to
essentially clean it up just a little bit.
And then we are going to create an IO buffer.
So our buffer is essentially a buffer in which you put a string and you can use that as an input output
or a file.
OK, so you'll see what this means in a minute.
So we create a new buffer based on this string that we just created and then we are going to do the
exact same thing with this ESV and data frame, except this time we're going to give it the buffer as
the source instead of the file.
OK, so this time because we've converted all the Ts to spaces and we are setting the delimiter as a
space character, this works out perfectly well.
So now it can read all line columns and everything works.
Right?
So there are many, many things like this in data science that you come across slowly and steadily when
you do some exploration on your own.
I just want to cover one use case, which is very common.
OK, now we have this red and we want to essentially figure out how many values are missing.
So some values are missing.
You can see a couple of over here.
So we want to figure out how many are missing.
So what we can say is we can some count missing for each column in D.F., so for each call.
So forkball in each corridor that loops over the columns and we are going to count is missing of the
column that we are measuring.
So essentially are some of the missing values in all columns.
OK, this looks really complicated.
We have a much cleaner method of doing this.
We can convert the data frame into a matrix just as we did previously, and then just county is missing.
So that is much cleaner way of doing the exact same thing.
We can also go ahead and map calls.
So we are going to take D.F. and map cards, extract columns and passes them to this function over here.
And each column is going to turn into X and we are going to count is missing and then map calls is going
to return the individual counts of missing values.
So MPG is missing eight values, horsepower is missing six values, and all the other columns have no
missing values.
So depends on what kind of analysis you're doing.
You might be interested in doing this or this or this.
If you are interested in finding optimizing values according to the column, you use the third method.
OK, now let's wait and do some more interesting stuff, such as adding a column based on data.
So previously we added the ID column, which was just going from one to the number of values here.
What we are trying to do is we are going to extract the brand name from the name of the car.
Right.
For instance, we have the name of the car over here as, for instance, Buick and or Chrysler or Ford.
We want to extract this because this is the brand and then we have the car name over here, so.
You want to extract this word Ford and this Toyota or Dodge or Chevrolet.
OK, now the way to do this is we are going to first see what name looks like.
So the name is this guy over here.
This is what it looks like.
We want to split it on a space character.
So if you do that, you can say split, dot, dot, dot name and we need dot because we want to broadcast
the split function over all the different elements within the series.
If you don't broadcast it, it's not going to it's not going to go into the individual element and it
won't work.
But because we have a broadcast, it goes ahead and apply split individually to the first string and
the second string and the third string.
Once we have that, we can apply the first function, which returns the first element from the array.
And we are going to broadcast this as well.
OK, so what brand is this here?
So first you split it, then you get the first element out.
So that gives you the brand.
OK, we also put that as a new series within the data frame.
So that goes in.
So now we can go ahead and retrieve some of these values so we can retrieve and brand.
So name is this guy over here and produce this guy over here.
OK, and we are seeing the first 10 columns.
If you see the size of D.F., it has four or six rows.
We can go ahead and drop all the missing values just as we did before.
You can say data is equal to drop missing D.F. And this is going to give us a slightly smaller data
frame now.
The 14 missing values are now gone.
OK, now if we try to count the missing values from D.F. two, obviously there are no missing values
because we just dropped them.
One of the most common things in data science is to extract certain rules based on the criteria.
For instance, if you are interested in getting just those rules which have the brand Assab, we can
say, do you have to leave to dot, brand, dot, dot equal to which means essentially apply broadcast
of equal to function on each individual row.
And we are saying if that equals sub and done all the columns.
So that's a slightly verbose way of doing this.
But this is what people typically do with.
So you do that and you get all the values which have Saab as the brand.
But a much better way of doing this would be using the filter method.
And you will say that filter takes a criteria and it source.
We did this when we were looking at functional programming.
So functional programming 030 do over here.
We saw this there.
If you don't recall this you can go ahead and take a look at that again.
But here we are going to pass this function to filter and what we're saying is only keep those rules
which satisfy this criteria.
So we give it a rock and roll brand when it is equal to Saab, we're going to keep it right.
So this retains the same value for us.
But you will notice that this is a lot more readable than this guy over here.
So it's typically recommended that you use filter for doing filtering because it makes more sense.
OK, finally, the actual issue that we started with, we want to load the data.
We want to clean it up a little bit, and then we want to write it into another file so that the next
time we read it, we don't have to do the cleaning again.
So we are going to simply use the computer to function, to write our data in order to clean NSV.
So that's done so that Autodesk cleaned out CSFI.
So you will see that this is perfectly clean now and you can take a look at the names and Granzow brand
has been added over here.
However, CSFI is not very efficient.
We have a new highly recommended format for storing very large data, which is about addle.
So you can go ahead and take a look at this link and it'll tell you the benefits of erro.
Very briefly, you can use Addle for very large datasets.
For instance, if you have 64 gigabytes of data and you want to load it into a sixteen gigabyte RAM
system, you can easily do that.
Using Arrow and Arrow is going to essentially manage all the swapping and swapping out for you.
So you don't have to worry about loading the required data into RAM because it becomes very problematic
very quickly.
So it's typically recommended that you go with Adam and you are doing any data science with very large
data, which is the whole point of data science.
Julia, to be frank, anyway, so for that we have a package in Julia called Arrow.
So we are going to say using Arrow, if you don't have it installed, you can install it using this
cell over here.
And then we are going to write the profile using Arrow Dot.
Right.
And we are going to give it the name over here.
Now, you will notice that this guy is.
Not something that we can open and the reason for that is Addo is a binary format.
It's not a text format, not a character format.
So you cannot read it directly over here, but we can read it and you're going to read it just for the
sake of our understanding over here.
OK, so do you have to go to another table and we are going to give it the source and then we are going
to convert it into a data frame using deep pipes index, just as we did with CSFI.
So once you have a narrow file, this is all you need to do to load it.
And because it's binary, it's very unlikely that it's going to have the problems that we had it.
We can go ahead and do some grouping.
So once you've read this and you have the same thing back in a data frame, you can go ahead and do
some groping.
So, for instance, you can grow by the brand who can say group round is equal to gloopy.
So this is a source that we want to group and this is the criteria or the cell on which we are going
to group.
So we do this and group round is going to have some groups.
The first group is where Brand is to Cheverly and these are the guys over here.
So what we're trying to do over here in this case study is and this is the Nissan one, what we're trying
to do over here is take a look at how many cars, for instance, are created by Ford, how many by Nissan
and so on and so forth.
Right.
So, for instance, if you take a look at the group trends and we get just the Ford values out, these
are the cars which are created by Ford, OK, because we group that and now we are giving this notice
this come over here.
This is very important.
If you don't do this, you're going to get an error.
And the reason for that is this.
This list over here has to be a dual collection.
And if you don't put a comma over here, it's simply a string which is surrounded by braggarts.
We don't want that.
We want a tuple.
So this converts it from a string sound right backwards to a tuple.
OK, so it's very important that you understand this.
You can give it other grouping criteria's as well.
But for this simple case study, this is enough.
OK, so these are the four things.
Now we can use the statistics package to, for instance, calculate mean and all the other statistics
as well.
Let's go ahead and calculate the MPG statistics by using the combine function.
So we have the group grants that we created over here and we are going to combine it and calculate the
mean of the MPG rate.
So because we have the grouping, the results are going to be grouped accordingly.
So Chevrolet has this mileage and so on and so forth.
Now we can go ahead and sort them even.
But before that, notice a couple of things.
Number one, this is too much data and I don't like it so we can change the energy lines 10.
And that is going to just show that 10 rows over here.
What this function does is it takes the mean column from each group.
So this MBG column from each group passes it to the mean function.
This function would here and then it creates a group name to aggregate function mapping.
So this is the group name Cheverly and the aggregate mapping is this guy over here.
So this is the mean MBG and it's going to mean MBG comes from over here and means this function.
OK, we can also posit any function using the anonymous functions syntax.
We'll see that in a minute.
We can do sorting by using the bank functions so we can give it Brandenberg.
This is the criteria for starting and we want to do a in-place reverse or descending order sort.
So these are the people who have the highest mileage.
So just to recap, what we did was we loaded the data.
We combine it using some.
Aggregate and column, and then we sorted it, that's all we've done.
Now let's go ahead and take a look at one of the more powerful features of Julia.
You will notice that we have the same brand MBG being repeated.
So Brandenberg Group brands.
And then Brandenberg, again, if you change the variable name in one place, you have to change it
in all places so it becomes very messy very quickly.
We want to see how we can do this really easily.
So, for instance, you have a Autogen column over here.
So what Origin says is, is it from us, from Europe or from Japan?
So one is for us.
Two is for Europe and three for Japan.
OK, so that is the semantics of this column.
What we want to do is we want to figure out different statistics based on this origin.
OK, so first we are going to group by brand and then figure out if each brand actually belongs to one
origin because that's how it should be.
If you have, for instance, Chevrolet going into the origin as us and as Japan, then there is a problem
with our data.
So this is just to make sure that our data is working perfectly fine.
What we're more interested in right now is this index.
So you have the group over here.
So this is fairly straightforward.
Then we want to combine this data frame, but the criteria is going to be Oregon and Oregon is going
to be not mean, but the length of the unique values for X.
So what this is saying is take the X or the role or the origin, do a unique and then see how many there
are.
Right.
So so let's go ahead and run this and you'll see what this means.
So Cheverly only one origin, Buick only one origin.
So all of them have just one origin, and that makes sense.
OK, so let's make this a little prettier, because this is really problematic.
As you can see, it's not very easy to understand what's going on.
So that's the whole point of this this section of the video.
It's difficult to understand what's going on.
That's why I didn't clean the code using the pipe operator.
And we are going to if you don't have the package installed, you should start started using this index.
What we're going to do is we're going to do an add pipe.
What this macro does is it allows us to use this underscore and I'll explain what that means in a minute.
So you take the data frame, you pipe it to the group function.
And whatever the result of this thing was, it is put in the underscore location, right.
So that the plane was loaded.
That was the output of this line that goes over here, then grew by Volks on that and groups it based
on brand, whatever the output of this whole thing is that goes into this underscore.
So now this is going to be a data frame.
I only have to give it a name.
Now we are going to combine this origin and the account of the unique values for the origin over here.
OK, so this makes Oracle look a lot cleaner and once you have this, you get the same result out.
But the court is much cleaner.
What the underscore does is takes the previous lines outward and put it in place of the underscore.
Then all of this goes over here.
For instance, if you want to sort it, you can add another line over here.
And that is going to Saajid will do that in just a minute.
So you can calculate the extreme just to make sure that all the values are what they are.
So we're fine.
So going back to the starting example, you can do the same thing as we did before.
So, for instance, you can have data from going into group and we are going to group not just by brand,
but by origin and brand.
And then we are going to combine whatever the result of this was based on the number of rows.
So what this is going to say is how many cars are in that brand?
OK.
And then we are going to sort it.
By passing by passing the output of this guy to the search function over here, it's a.
Take the data from Grubert, combine it and calculate the number of rows and then sorted in descending
order based on the number of rows, so.
Ford has 53 data points in this data that we have, Chevrolet has 44, has 32 and so on and so forth.
OK, this is what is called a long format.
So it's increasing downwards.
Sometimes we might want to convert it into a wide format.
If you're not really sure what that is, don't worry about it.
You can skip the rest of the video.
But if you are aware of what device, format versus long format is, you can go from long format to
white format using the unstaffed function.
And you'll see what the difference between these two is if you just run it.
OK, so what unstrapping does is it takes Ford and essentially creates a multiple column values over
here.
So all the ones are going to go over here.
So fifty three over here and all the threes, for instance, for Toyota, they are going to go over
here.
So.
Essentially, it creates a separate column for each individual value over here.
So this is called divide format.
Sometimes it's much easier to work with and you see all of these missing values.
We can get rid of them by converting them into zeros, using the coalesce function, which is broadcasted
to the whole different.
And so when you do that, you get these values out.
So what this is saying is Ford has the origin as one point zero in 53 cars, which makes sense.
Chevrolet has forty four in one point zero.
So all of these are US cars, all of these are Japanese cars.
And this guy over here is the European one.
So so the whole point of this video has been to do different bits of manipulation with data.
As you might be aware, data science is a huge field and there are a huge number of things that you
can do.
What we want to do over here was get a feel of how Julia approaches the different problems and how it
does the structuring of the code, along with some of the syntax details of Julia.
So hopefully after this, whenever you look up a Julia tutorial, you would be able to understand what
it does and what the syntax is and what the semantics are behind the different opportunities.
In the next video, we are going to apply a particular problem of clustering based on map data and see
how we can read a simple dataset and do some clustering based on that.